king kong we're already off to a terrible start
with the crap jokes but nothing's going to stop
me smiling as godzilla vs kong is finally out on
hbo max throughout this video we're going to be
breaking down the ins and outs of the story it's
ending and discussing the super secret surprise
villain that was shown in every trailer for the
film obviously there will be heavy spoilers here
so if you haven't had a chance to check out the
movie then i highly recommend that you check
yourself and check out now smash that thumbs up
button if you enjoy the video and don't forget
to subscribe to the channel for breakdowns like
this each and every day okay so there's a lot
to unpack from this movie and i will be doing
a slight recap to discuss the major plot points
as i feel you need to know them in order for the
ending to make sense however if you just want to
skip ahead then time codes will be linked below
the film itself centers heavily around the hollow
earth this is a real life theory that first
hit the mainstream back in the 17th century
after edmund haley theorized that earth had
an almost onion-like structure with several
layers to it though never proven the theory
still remains popular in conspiracy circles
and is something that makes the basis for this
movie in the titles for the film we discover
that there was an expedition to antarctica
in 1926 that unearthed its existence after
the people who participated in it disappeared the
event was quickly declassified by the government
but they've kept a close eye on it as there exists
a powerful energy source within its cavernous
tunnels it's the arise throughout the film that
this upon us will be able to destroy godzilla
and it sort of becomes the mcguffin for the
boring human subplot that gets in the way of
the two titans of terror tearing each other in
from them which let them fight yeah that's all
i want to say now the movie picks up five years
after the events of godzilla king of the monsters
and we join kong who's currently living in a
simulated skull island at monarch outpost 236
after the skull island mission that took place in
the 70s made his existence government knowledge
he's been placed in the production of man and
woman overseen by eileen andrews and her adopted
daughter gia who can communicate with him through
sign language sorry guerrilla sign language
he's lived somewhat of a peaceful existence
until he starts chucking trees about this is
something that we saw him doing in a solo movie
when the helicopters first arrived at skull island
and it's it's a pretty crappy strike that i
i don't even know why i bothered including
however linking back to school island we learned
that gia is actually the last of the iwa aka the
tribe that we met in that movie who lived somewhat
of a symbiotic existence with the creature
now because he's an alpha titan the organization
know that this puts him in direct competition with
godzilla and thus they've kept him shielded from
the monster in the build up to the film a lot of
people wondered how kong would end up going
toe-to-toe with the monster due to the site's
difference many of them my wife included often
say that size doesn't matter but there was some
people scratching their heads over how he would be
a formidable opponent however we do learn in the
movie that kong has continued to grow and that
the dome is becoming too small to stabilize him
now in these five years the shadowy organization
apex cybernetics have managed to build a gigantic
robotic titan known as mechagodzilla using the
head of the ghidorah that we saw at the end of
king of the monsters ishiro sarah zawa's son ren
has helped to perfect this titan killing machine
and he's able to telepathically control it through
neural link-ups designed by apex in the build-up
to the film it was said in the leaks that there
were a lot of similarities with pacific rim
and i feel like these moments especially ape
that film but not intended well well it was a bit
intended now the experiments are highly secretive
but bernie hayes the host of the titan conspiracy
theory podcast has managed to infiltrate their
organization through posing as an employee
haze unearthed some of their dodgy dealings but
before he can really get anywhere beyond seeing
eye to eye with mecha g godzilla shows up to
eat some fish and ships turns out you either die
king of the monsters or live long enough to see
yourself become a villain and the titan has now
become the latest victim of cancel culture due to
his constant attacks on their facilities madison
russell however realizes that there's stranger
things going on hey and she heads out with her
friend rusty from deadpool 2 to get to the bottom
of it realizing that their operations are going
down worse in an amberhead tweet apex enlists the
help of nathan lind nathan is a hollywood theorist
at dresses like marty mcfly and he also helps
out because he used to work for monok believing
that genetic memory exists within all creatures
lin theorizes that all beings wish to return to
their evolutionary source and thus they team up
with monarch and kong to lead them on a journey to
the center of the hollow earth now kong is taken
across the ocean and on the way we can see that
the character is sedated by giant green canisters
which is strapped on a collar around his neck
this is actually a callback to the original versus
film between the pair in which the humans used a
similar sort of liquid in order to sedate him now
it's on this voyage that godzilla arrives for the
showdown at sea that sees him not only beating
kong but also most of the monarch and apex vessels
the first battle doesn't disappoint and you can
see why they put so much hype into this fight as
it's an awesome action scene that feels fit for
a king kong up until this point i feel like it
was the best scene in the monster base and by far
was with the weights and delays that have seen his
film push back several times when discussing the
scene with ign director adam wingard talked about
how he wanted to pay homage to jaws in several
ways and we see this not only with godzilla's
dorsal fin soaring through the water but also the
boat that he pulls under with him shot similar to
the barrel scene it forces the humans into freeing
kong so that he can not only protect himself
but also them the battle goes underwater and
godzilla clearly beats kong making my boy take his
first l in a long line of them however the humans
disable the engines on their ships so that the
g-man thinks that they're destroyed and godzilla
retreats realizing that he'll come back as soon
as they start them up again the humans carry kong
across the sky and what is a reference to the hot
air balloon moment that appeared in 1962's king
kong versus godzilla along with kong monarch enter
the hollow earth and find an almost prehistoric
landscape that's similar to skull island
due to the ceiling and ground both being part
of the earth there are severe gravitational
anomalies and the hollow earth is protected with
natural forces similar to kong's home elsewhere
madison her buddy josh and bernie managed to seek
into the apex facility because their security is
absolutely terrible it's worse than my best
mate riddled richard's antivirus protection
and i don't mean on his computer i said hey you
haven't having that now here they discover apex
running combat simulations against skull crawlers
their continued testing alerts godzilla once more
and he travels to hong kong to attempt to destroy
the manufactured titan in the hollow earth we're
introduced to new monsters including nuzuki and
also warbat the former is a giant winged snake
that we see too of getting their butts handed
to them after our boy does some kung fu the
latter or large bat like creatures that attack him
inside the giant tomb that's there for his species
this showcases some of the skeletons left behind
in the war between the gajira and kong over the
millennia and also teases that their great
rivalry now this used to be the kong's home
but since they died out it's become somewhat of
a shrine along with the history lesson kong also
gains an axe the blade of which is made from a
gajira dorsal fin capable of being charged by the
energy source the activation of this is sensed by
godzilla who blasts his way through from hong kong
into the hollow earth chamber kong travels through
the crater and in the city they fight it out which
leads to another amazing action scene it's like a
live action rampage fight and it overall elevates
the movie to be the best in the monster vs saga so
far i definitely feel like they brought everything
out that they could to make it so that the fights
felt impactful throughout and other human parts
slightly bogged down the overall story these bits
really shine what doesn't shine though is my boy
kong who takes another solid l and with godzilla
weakened apex's ceo walter simmons uses the hollow
earth's power to fully charge mechagodzilla
however this backfires and ren is killed due to
the overcharge which allows the consciousness of
ghidorah to take over the machine and it murders
walter during his bad guy monologue before it
ventures to the surface to avenge its death
the humans manage to revive kong and jia convinces
him to join godzilla's side without a save mothra
joke in sight now the tagline of the film is one
will fall and i do feel like this was slightly
misleading as i was half expecting a death but
obviously these monsters crush it at the box
office so warner brothers don't want to destroy
what is quickly becoming their tentpole franchise
in the control room bernie josh and madison
help the short circuit mechagodzilla
and godzilla powers up kong's axe which
he uses to destroy the mechanical monster
with just godzilla and kong left standing
it looks like the two are going to face down
against one another but the pair have somewhat
found a respect that their ancestors could not
and they go their separate ways to form
their own kingdoms in their respective realms
now this takes us to the hollow earth which
has now become a kong monitoring station
nathan is now likely singing come on eileen as
he her and jia work together to turn the habitat
into his new home something that the monster was
searching for the entire film because skull island
was devastated by storms that wiped out the ewe he
had been left without one but this ancestral plane
allows him to finally have a domain once more to
rule over the monster verse has been very strict
over not calling him king kong but now at this
point i feel like this is cemented according to
the original plot leaks on the film which pretty
much got this entire story bang on that showing of
the movie revealed that kong was going to be the
king of the hollow earth whilst godzilla would
remain king of the monsters these separate domains
allowed them to be the alphas of their respective
kingdoms without upsetting the natural order of
events though we can't verify exactly what was
shown at the screening due to nda's this does make
a lot of sense and also opens the doors to sequels
that center around them and their respective
kingdoms now adam wingard has done several
interviews since the movie released overseas
and he explained that the film doesn't have
a post-credits scene because he didn't want to
pigeonhole himself into going down a certain path
though we now know that the movie was extremely
successful in its opening weekend they obviously
didn't know how big it would be when making it
and thus didn't want to restrict themselves to
one story avenue going forward i think this is
probably quite a smart thing to do as seeing
charles stance at the end of king of the monsters
and being completely removed for this film makes
little sense and it means that they can just
focus on that story as and when they get to it
no doubt the pair will be back but it might be
some time before we see them on screen together
now as for my thoughts on the film i think
you already know what my criticisms will be
as they're the thing that's always lobbied
against the movies in this saga the human
drama is pretty flat on the most part and there's
not even really any relationships this time around
so it's difficult to get attached to any of the
characters whereas in the prior monsterous movies
there's either been a brother and sister a love
story or a family driving the storyline here the
characters might as well just be put in place to
set up one plot point and take our characters to
the next that's pretty much what they get to do
with kong and even people like millie bobby brown
who was a big part of the last movie get reduced
to having very little to do it's the same with her
dad who even though he starred in peter jackson's
king kong doesn't really get anything to do at all
he's pretty much just there to read text messages
and that's a shame because he was such a big part
i feel like he could have removed their entire
arcs out of the film and it would have been pretty
much the exact same movie with a lost however
saying that i just want to say congratulations
to the team for all the monster scenes and action
moments they really saved the film in my eyes and
completely elevated it every time godzilla and
kong are on screen that is dynamite to the movie
that makes it exhilarating to watch your heart's
bumping you're on the edge of your seat and these
scenes are the best that we could have got there's
several bits where i was expecting martin scorsese
to pop on screen and say this is cinema because it
works so well so you know what we're talking about
this i do feel bad digging in the movie for having
crap human subplots when that's not what we're
here for what we really want to see is a showdown
between big monsters and this really delivers on
the promise out of all the monster versus movies i
feel like this reigns at the top with godzilla in
second place which i insist you go back and watch
after that for me it's probably skull island and
lastly is king of the monsters because i just just
thought it was pretty meh i was kind of good at
that kong took consecutive elves back to back as i
would have loved to have seen him get at least one
winning but i'm sure fans will debate all the time
like saying well he was sedated he was sedated
oh it is a shame that due to the pandemic
we can't all experience this in the cinema
as i think it would have been a blast to watch
but unfortunately that's just the way the world is
that being said though godzilla versus kong was
a blast and it gets a 7 out of 10. obviously i'd
love to hear your thoughts on the movie so
make sure you comment below and let me know